# Artifacts

## The Horn of Valen

During the rampage of the Greelish Horde, a small scouting party from TKTK, including a warrior 
named Valen and his teenaged son, stumbled upon the main Horde.  Their presence was unexpected; 
they believed the Horde to be besieging a city far to the south.  Valen's party desperately tried 
to get word back home so their their city could prepare for battle.  However, their presence was 
detected and they were pursued; only Valen and his son escaped, and on foot at that.  The horde 
sent a hundred warriors against them.  Seeing that they would eventually be caught, Valen sent his 
son on alone and turned to face the horde alone from a hilltop.  As the Horde's vanguard 
approached, he was seen to thrust the point of his sword into the ground and drop to his knees to 
pray.  After several minutes, he stood, raised his horn, and blew a mighty blast that echoed from 
the hills for miles around.  Then he returned the horn to his belt, drew his sword, and charged. 
It was a hopeless charge: one against a hundred, with thousands more behind them.  But yet it 
seemed that he did not charge alone.  As he ran down the hillside, it seemed that the shades of 
hundreds of warriors charged with him.  This was the last that Valen's son saw.  He made it back 
to XXXX, who sealed their gates and prepared for battle.  But when the Greelish Horde failed to 
arrive, they sent more scouts to locate them.  They found the body of Valen with six arrows in it, 
slumped over his sword, which was stuck into the ground on the hilltop.  Before him was a great 
slaughter: the corpses of the majority of the Greelish Horde lay in the valley below.  Some had 
attempted to form shield walls, but seemed to have been struck from behind.  Many had fallen while 
attempting to flee.  None of the Horde's horses or supplies had been touched.  Not a trace, not 
even a bent blade of grass, was found of the army that had wrought this carnage.  Valen's horn was 
nowhere to be found.

Valen has prayed not for victory or escape, but for the strength to teach the Horde to fear. 
~~god~~ granted this prayer at the cost of Valen's own life, sending a spectral army that swept 
all before it before vanishing back into the mists from which it game.  Valen's horn still travels 
the world: when blown, its blower will die but a force of spectres will appear to destroy all 
enemies within sight, disappearing only at sunrise or when their task is complete.  The blower's 
spirit will join ~~god~~ spectral army and cannot be resurrected unless ~~god~~ consents to it. 
Once blown, the horn will vanish and reappear somewhere else in the world.

The number and strength of the spectres summoned depends on the strength of the blower's bond to 
~~god~~.  No one since Valen is known to have ever summoned a full army.  The spectres are not 
unstoppable: some are known to have defeated them, while others are known to have held them off 
until dawn.  On occasion, some unfortunate soul blows the horn without knowing what it is or the 
consequences of doing do: that unfortunate's soul is still forfeit, while the summoned spectres, 
if they lack any enemies to fight, will mill around until dawn, unnerving but not harming passers 
by.


## The Perulian Gate

When the demonic horde breached the gates of Perul, Garkelap, nephew of King Lalkoret, succeeded in 
disengaging from the slaughter at the walls and returned to the noncombatants of his family, 
huddled in the palace at the center of town.  He kissed his children goodbye, then returned outside 
where he stood in front of the doors with axes in hand as the demons rushed towards him.  There 
were three streets that converged on the square outside the palace and a great demon champion 
approached along each.  The one on the left reached him first.  Their encounter was brief and 
ferocious: he slew the demon, but so doing cost him his right arm.  The second rushed him 
immediately, and he slew it as well, though doing so cost him his right.

The third demon paused and looked down at Garkelap as he stood, one arm hanging limply at his side 
and the other severed above the elbow.  Then it spoke:

"Yield yourself to me and I will heal your arms."

Garkelap spat blood and growled back "You want my soul, demon?  Then come and take it.  I'm not 
done yet."

The demon gestured at the severed arm lying on the ground and asked "What are you going to do, 
bleed on me?  Your arm's off!".

Garkelap's reply was to roar and charge at the demon.  He slew it too, with his teeth, though doing 
so cost him his life.

Despite his death, no demon could touch his corpse.  Nor could any demon step where his blood had 
spilled.  When the ruins of the city were re-taken the next spring, his bones still lay where he 
had fallen, his teeth still clamped around the throat of the third demon.  His bones were later 
incorporated into the Perulian Gate, the bulwark sealing the rift through which the demons had 
come.  As long as they endure, no demon may cross again.

