# Gods

The gods are a motley assortment of deeply flawed personalities who are constantly at odds with 
each other.  Though they don't realize it, only by working together can they create something 
balanced and free of their own biases.  (If anyone else figures it out, the gods and their devout 
followers will inevitably consider the idea blasphemous and suppress it.)  They rarely work 
together, so the world is full of flawed, biased things.

## The First Gods

Kote is a violent psychopath (sadistic).  To him, humour is the highest good and pranks played on 
the unwitting are the best form of humour.  He doesn't care who gets hurt or what gets broken so 
long as someone finds it funny.  On the other hand, violence born from anger is blasphemy to him. 
He will tolerate war as a means of proving a point, but often takes steps to stop conflicts that 
devolve to fighting for its own sake.  This is often where his destructive tendencies shine most 
strongly: this world began when he destroyed the previous one in order to end a long feud between 
the gods.

Celebratore is lazy libertine (schizotypal).  She spends her time seeking pleasure wherever it may 
be found and is often lost in a fog of drugs.  Worship of Celebratore inevitably involves 
intoxicants.  Special rituals usually involve hallucinogens.  Some congregations indulge in 
orgies.  Despite these behaviours, Celebratore's worshippers rarely contract venereal diseases and 
their children exhibit strangely few of the congenital defects that plague the children of most 
other substance-abusers; many believe that granting protections against such conditions is one of 
the few things that Celebratore can be reliably counted upon doing.

She is willing to conform to others' rules only to the minimum extent necessary to prevent others 
from ganging up on her. 

Nihlous is the possibly smartest of the gods but is also a sullen nihilist (passive-aggressive) 
who rarely shares his insights with others.  He keeps to himself and rarely acknowledges favours 
or slights, but when he does, his anger, or less frequently gratitude, is a sight to behold.  He 
is known for creating violent storms and destructive creatures.  Killing a particularly dangerous 
monster may amuse or anger him, depending on how he feels that day.  Worship is light on rituals 
and heavy on sacrifices (usually of goods rather than animals).  He is much more interested in 
deeds than words; his only interest in artistic expression is in sacrifices that demonstrate high 
cost in labour, materials, or money.

He doesn't like to talk and does whatever he wants, regardless of how others will respond.  He is 
very creative, but mostly channels this into creating monsters.  He's also fond of storms and 
other dangerous environmental conditions.  If he doesn't like something, he will either ignore it 
or crush it with overwhelming force.

Victaral is obsessed with winning and proving her superiority (narcissistic).  As a result, she 
creates more things and grants more prayers than the other gods, though she also demands the most 
sacrifice and the most elaborate worship.  When her creations or worshippers fail her, she usually 
either destroys the evidence or casts the subject adrift and pretends that it was someone else's 
responsibility all along. 

Grast

Saefareet (paranoid) is a keeper of knowledge.  She knows everything that has happened since the 
beginning of the world.  Because of this, she alone can re-create a soul after its dissolution. 
She rarely shares her power, however, as she is deeply paranoid about what others will do with her 
knowledge and guards her secrets jealously.

Nuntamir

Talsinallabet (histronic) values art and beauty.  She isn't particularly creative herself but 
values it in others.  Her worshippers are prone to elaborate architecture, sculpture, painting, 
etc.  Personal beauty is also important: clothing, hair styles, makeup, bodybuilding, etc.  Her 
tastes tend to change quickly, so her worshipers are always chasing the latest trend.  She is also 
a nymphomaniac.  She differs strongly with Celebratore on the use of intoxicants: those are seen 
as abusing the body (though emetics and other slimming aids are tolerated, as would muscle-
building aids if they were known).


...

Need: gluttonous, artistic, rule-bound, domineering (with face-shifting reptilians as servants), 
greedy, obsessed with sanctity of mind, etc.

Ed. note: see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personality_disorder#Millon%27s_description
Each god has a major personality flaw and one or more good characteristics (smart, creative, 
brave, perceptive, good memory, etc.)


## The Guardians

Seven total, two are dead.
Need a theme: maybe someone's concept of virtues?


## The Interloper

Orillal does not acknowledge a gender.  On the contrary, it views preoccupation with gender 
labels, gender roles, gender-specific fashions, sexual preferences, etc. as obnoxious: if you're 
not looking to have sex with it and aren't seeking help with gender-specific medical issues, then 
it doesn't want to hear about your gender.  This isn't to say that Orillal doesn't approve of sex: 
whatever consenting adults want to do (or not do) with their genitals is fine; just don't insist 
on using gender-related labels and signals in contexts where they're not relevant.  And if you do 
insist on gender-related labels or signals, don't complain when people interpret them in undesired 
ways.

While some applaud Orillal for being a practical straight-talker, it has a tendency to be overly 
idealistic.  Its solutions to problems tend to involve beautiful conceptual frameworks that often 
fail to adequately take into account the messy complexities of the real world.  "Affirmative 
action" is anathema to Orillal, viewed as making problems worse by adding legal discrimination to 
supplement the extra-legal or historical discrimination that it's supposed to address.

Orillal's devout include large contingents of collectivists and anarchists, both of whom feel that 
their philosophies are supported by Orillal's teachings.  Predictably, these two factions do *not* 
get along.

