## The Long War

In XXXX, the dragon Ivar the Mighty completed his conquest of the dragon-states, uniting them 
under one ruler for the first time.  This did not satisfy his lust for power.  After spending a 
couple decades reorganizing and preparing his empire, he declared an intention to conqueror the 
world and stuck southwest into Jidan, setting fire to the great forests and enslaving everyone he 
found.  The Jida had watched Ivar's rise to power with growing concern, but were still unable to 
mount an effective resistance; their forces fell back into the deep forest and tried to fight a 
guerrilla war.  Their resistance lasted a couple years, but in the end, Jidan was reduced to a 
charred wasteland, its population sent to work the fields and mines of the dragon-lands.  With 
Jidan now secure, Ivan looked south for his next conquest.

However, Thule was not so unprepared.  They did not intervene in Ivar's invasion of Jidan as the 
largely wooded region was poorly suited to their fighting styles and fighting dragons in the midst 
of flammable trees was deemed a bad idea, but as Ivar finished burning out the last pockets of 
resistance, Thule made its move.  The forests of the hills along their border were drier than 
those along the coast and had been burned out a couple years earlier, leaning open terrain 
adequate for their purposes.  Ivar's numerous but poorly-organized troops were taken by surprise 
by the disciplined ranks of armored Thulians bearing down on them.  Ivar attempted a massive 
counter-attack, but it made little impact against a Thulian shield-wall and he was forced to 
withdraw as his available troops were exhausted.  Thule made no effort to pursue, instead 
concentrating on establishing a new, defensible border giving them control of roughly the southern 
third of Jidan.

For the next several generations, Thule maintained the fiction of an independent state of Jidan in 
the region that they controlled.  However, the region remained a frequent battle-ground and no 
credible leadership emerged from the surviving Jida to take charge; Thule eventually formally 
annexed the region after recapturing it from Ivar again in XXXX.

After spending a decade licking his wounds, Ivar chose to strike to the northwest instead of 
trying his luck again against Thule.  The Elvani were prepared but badly outnumbered and were 
pushed back out of the fertile lowlands.  However, their resistance stiffened as they reached more 
defensible terrain in the foothills and mountains and eventually Ivar was forced to suspend his 
campaign for the winter.  A winter of frantic diplomacy succeeded in assembling a defensive 
alliance against Ivar: the Windborne would raid Ivar's winter quarters to disrupt his preparations 
for spring, and Thule would attack from the south as soon as the ground was dry enough to march an 
army.  Thimeera would come to Thule's aid if Ivar crossed the (old) Thulian border.

Luck was with the Windborne, and their raid reached Ivar's camps in the middle of a winter storm. 
Their mammoths simply pushed over the flimsy palisades that Ivar's troops had erected in the tree-
starved region then crushed thousands of soldiers as they huddled in their tents; the survivors 
fled to freeze.  Thule's assault turned out to be a poorly-led disaster, but it forced Ivar to 
turn his attention to the south and he wasn't able to gather enough troops to take advantage of 
Thule's missteps as decisively as he might have.  When Ivar pushed the Thulians back across their 
border, Thimeera's marines landed on his eastern coast and the war bogged down.  Even the Iyutik 
added to Ivar's woes: while the Thimeeran navy was out in force, they reached a deal that the 
Thimeerans would leave them alone as long as they stayed north of XXXX, a port in northern Thule 
which traditionally did a lot of business with the Iyutik.  The Iyutik would make their own raids 
into the dragon-lands, then sell their loot and slaves in XXXX.

This set the pattern for the subsequent centuries of conflict: there would be occasional border 
skirmishes and coastal raids, with major campaigns occurring once every generation or so.  Long-
lasting, significant border changes were rare.  Ivar was no tactician and tended to rely on fast-
moving hordes to overwhelm by sheer numbers.  (Before his rebirth, he had been a level 9 
berserker, and while a berserk dragon is a sight to behold, subtlety is not a strong point.) 
Elvan dug deep and built high, establishing a near-impregnable network of fortifications and only 
occasionally venturing down into the lowlands.  Thule's heavy infantry were hard to stop but 
tended to have trouble protecting their supply lines on extended campaigns.  Thimeera ruled the 
seas but were less effective at large-scale land combat.  The Windborne were uninterested in 
defeating Ivar but were willing to support Elvan from time to time, if only to preserve it as a 
buffer state.  Babel collapsed and was absorbed by its neighbours.  Facci never formally allied 
with Ivar and indeed fought against him during the Babel campaign, but also took advantage of 
Thimeeran distraction to seize territory along their border and forced Thimeera to keep 
substantial forces at home.  Enalia went through a series of revolts and civil wars, partly fueled 
by abundant corpses imported from the war zone.  The allies had overall numerical superiority but 
Ivar could always muster local superiority, leaving the allies vulnerable to defeat in detail. 
Ivar also had the advantage of continuity of leadership over the centuries, while his opponents' 
disunity and changing priorities kept them from pressing their advantages to their fullest.

While Victaral openly favoured Ivar and some of the other gods took their own sides, Kote was 
disgusted by the whole affair.  Finally, after several centuries of war, he took action.  Acting 
directly would have risked intervention by other gods, so he subtly influenced the studies of a 
group of Elvani wizards: they learned a ritual that would create a massive magical explosion, 
easily capable of killing even a dragon of Ivar's might.  The ritual would consume their own 
souls, so they'd only get one shot.  Finding this trade acceptable, they began to make plans. 
Elvan camped an army in the lowlands southwest of their mountain heartland and allowed Ivar to 
learn that they were waiting for reinforcements before attacking.  Ivar, as predicted, found the 
poorly situated army an inviting target and resolved to crush it before it could be reinforced. 
This drew Ivar and his horde into the range of the wizards, who cast their ritual. 

At first, the ritual went as intended: the spell consumed their souls and the magical explosion 
killed Ivar and many others close to him.  However, what Kote had hidden from the wizards was that 
the ritual would *also* consume the souls of those that it killed, increasing its power further. 
And the soul of a thousand-year-old dragon increased it by a **lot**.  The resulting conflagration 
consumed Ivar's entire army and ended up blasting a crater hundreds of meters deep.  The Elvani 
army was mercifully clear of the blast but was devastated by ejecta.  In fact, debris landed 
hundreds of kilometers away and the concussion collapsed the walls of XXXX.  The sound travelled 
all the way across the world and was still audible on its second return.  Kote ensured that the 
secrets of the ritual died with its casters.

Elvan was in no shape to follow up, but this was the beginning of the end for Ivar's empire. 
Leaderless, it started to fragment as his lieutenants made their own claims to power.  Thule and 
Thimeera resolved to end the war and started pushing in from the southeast, besieging and 
capturing towns one at a time.  Some towns, controlled by breakaway factions, made peace.  After 
three years, they finally reached Ivar's capital: Pozagrod, The Flaming Citadel.  The siege lasted 
another year.  When it finally fell, the victors proceeded to methodically destroy it, leaving no 
stone unbroken.  They sacrificed thousands of captives to cast powerful curses over the ruins, so 
that no one could ever live there again and that generations unborn would fear the fate of those 
that tried to conqueror the world.

Centuries later, the curses still endure: among the broken stones of Pozagrod, the only things 
that live are lichen, beetles that feed on it, and scorpions that prey on the beetles.  But there 
may yet be something else: people who live nearby report strange sounds in the night, strange 
mists during the day, and occasional disappearances of both livestock and people.

