## The Accursed

### Sylphs [air]

Sylphs, the people of the air, are slim, quick, and graceful.  Their skin tones range from light 
blues to white, with quickly-growing hair in similar tones but a few shades darker.

Sylphs are protogynous hermaphrodites.  A typical sylph develops as female around the age of 14, 
marries a male (ie, older) by the age of 18-20, and bears a couple children.  Around the age of 
35, the sylph reaches menopause and begins to re-develop as male.  By 40, it will marry one or 
more females (ie, younger) and father some more children.  Sylphs remain attached to all spouses 
for life, so this practice creates complicated family structures.  In old age, they are tended by 
their younger spouses (who are generally also male by that point).  Casual homosexuality is common 
and accepted, but nearly everyone marries into the family structure even if they never have 
children.

**Racial abilities**

  Fast
  +1 rank jump


### Undine [water]

**Life cycle & Reproduction**

Most non-undine have difficulty telling male and female undine apart.  They are broadcast 
spawners.  Once per year, both males and females produce large amounts of gametes, which they 
expel together in shallow, flowing water.  Some eggs get fertilized; most do not.  Fertilized eggs 
drift out to sea where they grow into fish-like larvae.  Undine larvae they have the intelligence 
of animals and eat just about anything that they can fit into their mouths, including each other. 
They are also preyed upon by many creatures of the sea.  At the age of four or five, as one-meter 
tetrapods, larvae swim back to the shallows where they were spawned and crawl ashore.  There, they 
are adopted back into the community of undine that spawned them.  Over the next five years of 
their lives, the larvae metamorphose into humanoid body patterns, with the accompanying large 
increases in brain size and intelligence; by the age of ten, a young undine looks and acts much 
like a similarly-aged youth of most other races.

A sad property of communities that get destroyed or abandoned is that undine larvae continue to 
crawl ashore there and die of exposure or predation over the next few years.  Because of this, 
undine consider that causing a community to become abandoned is one of the worst things that a 
person can do, worse than any murder or atrocity.  Undine who learn of an abandoned community will 
frequently drop everything to move there.  Conquerors who slaughter or drive out the inhabitants 
of a community will immediately re-settle the area with someone.  Spawning away from a recognized 
community's mating area is considered a perversion of nature; any undine caught doing this are 
likely to be forced to settle there for the next five years in case any of their children return 
(this is one of the few situations under which an undine will have any idea who its sires are). 
Dumping sewage or other waste in bodies of water is also considered a major crime by undine.

Since it's widely accepted that undine larvae eat each other, cannibalism is not stigmatized in 
undine society.  It's rare for undine to deliberately kill each other for food, but some 
communities practice funerary cannibalism and few undine will turn down any source of fresh meat 
if other food is running short.

While undine larvae can extract all of the oxygen that they need from water, adults don't 
completely lose this ability.  They can't extract enough oxygen from water to support higher 
consciousness or any significant activity, but undine cannot drown in water with normal oxygen 
levels: they will lose consciousness when drowning as other races do but will then carry on 
breathing water until exposed to air again or something else kills them.  Unless the water is 
contaminated with poisonous or disease-causing agents, having one's lungs filled with water has no 
health consequences to an undine.

**Racial abilities**

  +1 rank swim
  Cannot drown in normal water
  Cold resistance


### Ignans [fire]

**Life cycle & Reproduction**

Ignans are oviparous.  Mature iganan females undergo a monthly egg cycle.  If the egg gets 
fertilized within about a 1-week window, she carries the developing embryo for a second month as 
it grows to roughly 6 pounds and develops a tough, leathery exterior.  Eggs need to be kept warm 
and hatch about three months later.  Unfertilized eggs (called "ootes"), weighing about 2 pounds, 
are expelled at the end of the monthly cycle.  They are gelatinous with soft exteriors and are the 
primary food of ignan hatchlings for the first years of their lives.  Since one oote per month is 
not adequate to sustain a hungry, growing hatchling, ignan females tend to live in large family 
groups where they can support each others' offspring. 

This process puts high metabolic demands on ignan females and frequently causes medical issues. 
Ignan females correspondingly have notably shorter life expectancies than males and higher dietary 
requirements.  However, the birth ratio is nearly even.  This would lead to a very skewed gender 
ratio later in life were it not for the violent or hazardous lifestyles of many male ignans.

Hatchlings have large, toothy mouths and clawed limbs suitable for tearing their way out of their 
own eggs and for grasping and biting into ootes.  These traits diminish as hatchlings grow up. 
Due to the typical social structures of ignan females, it is common for ignans to not know exactly who their parents are.

Ootes spoil within a few months, so they cannot be hoarded long without access to refrigeration or 
suitable forms of magic.  They are a common trade item.  Adult ignans generally consider ootes to 
be delicious, but due to their value, it is rare for adults to eat more than a token amount of 
oote.  As a dominance display, many conquering groups of ignans will eat every oote that they can 
scavenge from a victim population, thus leaving their children to starve.

Ignans almost always live in settlements with at least 20-30 adult females, almost never in 
isolated single-family dwellings.  Rather than living on their farms, ignan peasants live in 
villages and commute to and from their fields every day.  Polygamy is common: wealthy and powerful 
males gather harems to match their stature.  Consequently, unattached males who avoid the traps of 
servitude or slavery may travel the world looking for fame, wealth, and notoriety.


### Oreads [earth]

Like marsupials, except that the male has the pouch.  Transfer like seahorses.

Radiation-resistant


### ??? [metal]

Heat-resistant


### Dryants [wood]

**Life cycle & Reproduction**

Humanoid dryants are actually children.  In their mature, adult form, dryants are trees.  Mature 
dryants can live for centuries; they usually retain some trace of a face, though even this fades 
with age and extremely old dryants are almost indistinguishable from common trees.  Mature dryants 
are hermaphrodites that occasionally produce huge, beautiful flowers.  If polinated by a 
particular species of moth, the flower will grow into a large pod; after about a year, the pod 
will split and a dryant child will emerge.  Newborn dryant children are about a meter tall. 
Dryants posess a limited form of ancestral memory: newborns can walk, talk, and feed themselves 
(which isn't hard, since dryants can subsist on wider varieties of plant material than other 
races), but can't read and don't share their parents' skills or memories.  Newborns are usually 
dangerously naive.  As they age, immature dryants are eventually taken by an irresistible urge to 
find a patch of moist soil with good sunlight and there "put down roots" -- literally.  Most 
dryant communities keep a "Grove of the Ancestors" where they try to guide their maturing elders, 
though some still complete their metamorphoses on roadsides, in fields, out in the wilderness, and 
in some wildly inappropriate places.  Dryants born to remote parents may be exposed to all sorts 
of dangers, but due to the rarity of dryant flowers, few flowers are fertilized outside of a Grove 
of the Ancestors.  Dryants don't have parental relationships like most races do; young dryants are 
generally treated as wards of the community and live in dormitories with other dryants of similar 
age (or with a succession of foster parents in smaller communities) until they've fully grown and 
learned enough to live independently.  They value this practice as it allows youth to learn from 
many elders rather than only a few, and it allows elders to specialize in teaching youth in 
particular age ranges.

Immature dryants are asexual.  Nudity is normal in dryant society.  Clothes are typically only 
worn as protection or for access to useful accessories such as pockets.

Mature dryants can survive in a remarkable range of habitats, but can't tolerate extreme cold, 
extreme wind exposure, or severe drought.  For obvious reasons, they can't live underground or 
under water.  Immature dryants likewise avoid these conditions and spend little time at sea, 
especially as they age.

Immature dryants can communicate with mature dryant trees.  This ability requires constant touch 
and results in very slow communication, equivalent to a few words per minute.  Further, 
communication slows as the mature dryant ages: a truly ancient dryant is unlikely to speak more 
than a few words per day, if one can get it to respond at all.

While dryants can digest the same foods as other races (and a number of other things besides, 
including most leaves and some bark), most prefer to eat only things whose harvest does not kill 
the creatures that produced them.  A few carry this to extremes by refusing to eat seeds or eggs, 
but most consider those to be acceptable.  While mature dryants obtain most of what they need by 
photosynthesis, even immature dryants gain some benefit from sunshine: a dryant's dietary needs 
are halved for any day that it spends at least 8 hours in direct sunlight (not wearing clothes, of 
course).

** Culture**

Due to the difficulty of distinguishing old dryants from common trees, dryants are very careful 
about what trees they cut and use wood far less than other races; where possible, they prefer to 
build and craft from stone, metal, and bone.  Burning wood is avoided whenever possible and 
cutting a living tree for the purpose of burning it is simply not done.

Dryants prefer to be no more than a few steps from open sky and generally avoid going 
underground.  They gather minerals only from the surface, or trade for them with other races. 
While they may live in buildings made of stone or sod, their architecture favours as much natural 
light as possible.


### Thanays [void]

Thanays have deep black skin, so much so that their features are difficult to see.  In low light, 
their eyes tend to reflect red light strongly, making their eyes appear to glow in the dark. 
These two characteristics often make them look "creepy" to those unaccustomed to them.

Due to their lack of apparent features, non-thanays tend to have difficulty telling thanays 
apart.  Thanays themselves claim to be colourful and highly distinctive.  This is presumably only 
apparent under infravision.  They also have unusually good vision under low light.

**Life cycle & Reproduction**

Thanays are mammals.  They are viviparous and feed their newborns with milk secreted from 
prominent mammary glands on the chests of females.  Their milk is toxic to most other creatures 
and is sometimes used as an ingredient in poisons.  Their family relationships are extremely 
varied, including various combinations of monogamy, polygyny, polyandry, heterosexuality, and 
homosexuality, but most groupings are formed for life.  Sexual relations outside of marriage are 
unusual and discouraged.

Their dietary needs are similar to other races.  However, thanays find nearly all foods that are 
palatable to other races to be bland and tasteless.  Consequently, thanay cuisine relies heavily 
on spices and garnishes, most of which are poisonous to other races.

**Racial abilities**

  Low-light vision
  Infravision
  Blend into darkness: A thanay gains 1 rank stealth and may hide in plain sight in low light or 
  darkness.  This may be negated by wearing highly visible clothing.
  Poison resistance
  Easy to raise as undead?


## Other

### Valkyr

The valkyr are one of the great enigmas of the world: they appear to have not been created by the 
Twelve and no one knows their origins.  However, they do share in the gift of the Guardians. 
Uniquely among humanoids, they can fly.  Their dual-purpose wings/arms are much stronger than 
their legs, making them slow and awkward on land.  They mostly eschew mixed communities, instead 
building their own settlements in mountainous regions around the world. 

Valkyr society is peculiarly pacifist: they usually won't commit acts of violence even in their 
own defence.  That isn't to say that they're defenceless: they are masters of illusion and weather-
manipulation magic.  In fact, during the Long War, one Dragonal army spent 14 months besieging an 
illusion, taking heavy casualties from disease, weather, and accidents in the process, before 
discovering their error (the 600-year old dragon leading the army was executed for incompetence). 
Their ability to fly also allows them to put their settlements in places that are difficult for 
outsiders to reach or traverse.  Most valkyr extend this pacifist philosophy to vegetarianism, 
though many will eat insects, worms, and other "lesser" animals.

**Life cycle & Reproduction**

Once per year, female valkyr enter a mating period that lasts about a week; if they become 
pregnant, they lay clutches of up to three eggs a month later.  These eggs hatch after another two 
months into tiny, helpless young that must be fed soft, easily digestible foods for the first 
years of their lives.  Most vaklyr hatchlings do not live to their first birthdays, but those that 
do can expect longer lifespans than most humanoids.  Valkyr society places great importance on 
hatchlings' first birthdays; in many communities, names are not assigned to hatchlings until their 
first birthdays.

Male valkyr have a similar mating period, of about two weeks, once per year.  Except during these 
mating periods, male and female valkyr are difficult to distinguish.  Both sexes are likely to 
mate with many partners during their respective mating periods, but sexual activity outside of 
these periods is considered abnormal.  During their mating periods, valkyr exhibit brighter 
colours, distinctive odours, and higher aggression.

The valkyr have the peculiar property that they can cross-breed with any of the Accursed races, 
but regardless of the race of the second parent and its manner of reproduction, the offspring 
always eventually grows up into a valkyr.

**Racial abilities**

  Slow
  Flight (poor manoeuvrability.)
  Pacifist: -4 on attack rolls vs. living creatures.  Gain knowledge bonuses instead?  Alternate 
  template without this?

