## Alwet

Alwet is a theocracy ruled by a council of 13 high priests.  There were originally 12, one for 
each of the Twelve.  Worship of the Guardians was ruthlessly suppressed.  When Orillal appeared, 
it suddenly had priests and worshippers in Alwet, just as everywhere else, but its worshippers had 
no seat at the ruling council.  In fact, the ruling council tried to suppress the worship of 
Orillal just as they did with the Guardians, but Orillal had too many followers throughout the 
land, including within the ranks of the Council's own guards, to be easily disposed of.  A civil 
war erupted.  The followers of the Twelve outnumbered the Dissenters twelve to one and they were 
confident of victory.  However, the Dissenters fought dirty and received support from foreign 
coreligionists.  They also made deals with worshippers of the Guardians, both domestic and 
foreign.  The war turned into an extended bloodbath characterized by murders and atrocities.  When 
the general population started to not only detest the Council of the Twelve but also abandon 
religion in general, the Council finally agreed to peace negotiations.  The compromise eventually 
reached created a thirteenth seat on the council for "other" gods and lifted the absolute 
prohibition on the worship of other gods, including the Guardians.  This seat is generally held by 
a follower of Orillal, but has occasionally been held by worshippers of various Guardians. 
Unfortunately, old habits die hard and even centuries later, the representatives of the Twelve on 
council tend to vote as a bloc against any proposals favouring other gods and their followers, who 
are frequently treated as second-class citizens and subjected to various discrimination.  As a 
result, the country is never quite stable.  Vandalism and arson of religious structures is 
rampant.  Murders of prominent dissenters or agents of the Council are common.  Outbreaks of 
pogroms against Dissenters and revolts by them occur generationally.  The Council often makes 
concessions to restore order, but once things have settled down, they have a tendency to attach 
exceptions to those concessions, enforce them unevenly, or even repeal them altogether.  After 
centuries of this, the law is a chaotic mess of expired, superseded, preempted, overridden, 
contradictory, unenforced, and forgotten provisions.  Dissenters complain that the Council's only 
interest with respect to the Dissenters is to prevent a second civil war.

Selection of the representative to fill the "Other Gods" seat on the Council is also problematic.  The Dissenters have a rotation schedule that divides time on that seat between different gods 
based on their numbers of worshippers, but this works better on paper than in reality.  There is 
no accurate census (or at least not once that is trusted to not be manipulated in favour of The 
Twelve), so the counts of worshippers are only estimates that are often disputed.  On occasion, 
the different Dissenter groups have fought amongst themselves over whose turn it is.  Alternately, 
the holder of the "Other Gods" seat may be seen as a collaborator; several have been assassinated 
by other members of their own sects for this reason.  This often makes it hard to find qualified 
candidates willing to take the seat.


