## Babel

Denonym: Babelian

Babel, the original capital of Elsafamab and her followers, was once the greatest city in the 
world.  After the cursing of the apostates, its great temple lay in ruins but the bulk of its 
population remained.  However, Elsafamab had chosen the site of Babel more based on its natural 
beauty and defensibility rather than its available resources, so with no strong ties to the city 
after the destruction of its temple and the scattering of the Guardians, people started to drift 
away and over the centuries, it was gradually eclipsed by other cities and states.  It remained an 
important city, mainly due to its location near the Baline River which allowed it to tax trade on 
that important route, but it was now just one important city among many.

Its final decline came during the Long War.  In the second century of the conflict, Ivar sought to 
outflank Thule and attack Thimeera directly by occupying the region.  A massive attack forced the 
Thulians to withdraw to their pre-war defenses along the old Jidan border, from which they watched 
in surprise as the Dragonal horde continued southwest towards Babel rather than turning south into 
their heartland.  Ivar captured the unprepared city before the Babelians could mount an effective 
response, allowing him to open his second front.  Thimeera had no choice but to counter-attack 
before Ivar could prepare an invasion of their undefended interior, and even Facci, seeing their 
borders now directly threatened as well, got involved.  The conflict over Babel was one of the 
bloodiest periods of the whole war.  In the end, Thimeera nominally controlled the Babel region 
but it was left devastated and largely depopulated.  Having no need of the city of Babel to 
control trade on the Baline, Thimeera made no effort to redevelop the area; Thimeera's main 
interests in the region consist of guard posts intended to suppress banditry affecting the trade 
route, but they have little influence away from the river.  The jungles now growing between the 
mossy stones of the city are home to various small tribes and cults, who have re-introduced the 
worship of the Guardians to its first home.

