## Enalia

Denonym: Enali

On a peninsula jutting south from TKTK, separated from the other major nations by The Cradle, The 
Bones, and The Grave, lies Enalia.  Due in part to its hostile borders, but mostly due to its 
predominant population of thanays, Enalia balances itself between life and death.  This is not to 
say that the state is weak and liable to collapse, but rather that at any given time, roughly half 
of Enalia's population is dead.  Or rather, undead.  Enali society values "civil necromancers" who 
reuse the useless husks of the dead for unskilled labour.  As a result, Enalis have a higher 
average standard of living than in most nearby states as the underclass of manual labourers is 
small.  Instead, the living are encouraged to learn skilled trades or the simple magic that allows 
them to direct and repair the undead.  This does not mean that Enalia has low wealth disparity; 
civil necromancers skim a tithe off most of the economy and use their vast wealth to fund projects 
from the extravagant to the bizarre. 

Being separated from other states by inhospitable territory in which they have little interest, 
Enalia tends towards isolationism.  Many other cultures want little to do with Enalia's 
necromantic economy, though some scrupulous traders have been known to collect the corpses of 
strong, young people to sell for reanimation, as they make better zombies than the more plentiful 
bodies of the weak, injured, or elderly.

Prior to TKTK, Enalia was governed by a hereditary aristocracy.  The various necromancers had 
become increasingly influential over the years to the point that large parts of the country were 
ruled by them in all but name.  However, they mostly kept the peace and followed the laws set by 
their aristocratic masters until one moderately influential necromancer, Alcopo Bertit√© lost the 
confidence of his erstwhile aristocratic patron and left the country for several years.  When he 
returned, he was astride an undead *dragon*, from which he declared himself Emperor of Enalia. 
This set off a series of civil wars and uprisings that pitted necromancers against aristocrats, 
then necromancers against each other and commoners against necromancers.  The eventual peace 
settlement led to today's democratic civil government that leans heavily on (and is manipulated 
behind the scenes by) the now-united Civil Necromancers' Guild.

Major cities include Enal, the capital, and Un, a trading port close to the edge of The Grave.

