## Eosahai

Denonym: Eosahi

Prior to 3093, Eosahai was a fishing village at the edge of a mosquito-infested marsh.  But in 
that year, the Faccian planning commission recognized that only a low range of hills separated the 
slow and sluggish Eosahai River from the Ocean and established the Eosahai Consortium with the 
goal of digging a canal to break Thimeera's stranglehold on trans-continental commerce. 
Construction began in 3105.  Due to a series of labour disputes, conflicts with the local Kardian 
tribes, disease outbreaks, and disputes among investors that delayed construction, water finally 
began to flow through the Eosahai Canal in 3212.  At that point, the engineers managing the 
project discovered that they had neglected to consider that water levels in Ocean and Sea might be 
different: the flood pouring through the canal eventually raised the level of the Sea by over a 
meter.  Much of Eosahai, along with many other communities along the Sea, were swamped.  A 
haphazard coalition of angry coast-dwellers from around the Sea attacked and quickly captured 
Eosahai.  The Faccian government nationalized the Eosahai Consirtium and sent their army to 
protect their investment by taking it back.  The Eosahi appealed to Thimeera for aid, and the 
situation devolved into a war between Thimeera and Facci.  Meanwhile, various mercenaries and 
adventurers reinforced Eosahai, which established itself as a new city-state independent of both 
Thimeera and Facci, solidly in control of a new major trade route.  Realizing that they'd been out-
manoeuvred, Thimeera and Facci cut their losses and agreed to a treaty that limits either of their 
involvement in Eosahai.

The tribes of Kardy were not amused at this foreign incursion into their traditional territory. 
Most tribes with interests in the area eventually reached deals with Eosahai, but the Nine Bows 
continue to accuse Eosahai of encroachment and intermittently attack travellers or raid outlying 
homesteads.

During the Long War, Facci attempted to capitalize on Thimeeran occupation elsewhere by abrogating 
their treaty and launching an expeditionary force with the goal of conquering Eosahai.  The 
campaign started well enough: they established an advance base on the coast a few dozen miles 
south of Eosahai, landed a large quantity of supplies to support operations on land and at sea, 
and began a naval blockade of Eosahai.  Then they were dealt a humiliating defeat at the hands of 
a coalition of Kardian tribes who were displeased at the prospect of more foreign interference in 
their traditional territory.  The remains of the Faccian army were forced to sail home on half 
rations while the Kardy feasted on their confiscated supplies.  The costs of this failed campaign 
caused a financial crisis and forced the Faccian government leaders to resign.  Meanwhile, the 
Eosahi called on Thimeera to enforce their treaty; while most Thimeerans were more inclined to 
laugh into their sleeves at Faccian miss-steps than complain about the treaty violation, they did 
make enough threatening gestures (while Thimeera was still distracted elsewhere, they had the 
advantage of an experienced, veteran army while Facci had just demonstrated that their army 
consisted mostly of raw recruits and inept fools) that Facci agreed to re-join the treaty at the 
cost of a modest indemnity.  Thimeera immediately used this indemnity to buy much of the captured 
Faccian military stockpile from the Kardy.  The Eosahi never admitted to having bribed either the 
Kardy or the Thimeerans, not that that stopped the Faccians from accusing them of both.

Wealthy in cash but small and poor in resources, Eosahai depends on imports for food and 
mercenaries for defense.  Their foreign policy is based on bribery and playing rivals against each 
other.  Key to their strategy is their relationship with Thimeera.  Eosahai and Thimeera are 
natural rivals, both controlling a major trade route from which they derive much wealth.  However 
Eosahai keeps costs high enough that traversing the Southern Trade Route is still less expensive 
for much trade and makes no attempt to keep their canals open in winter.  In return, Thimeera 
acknowledges that an independent Eosahai is better for their interests than one dominated by Facci.

Eosahi society is highly capitalist and driven by trade.  Nearly any good or service can be 
purchased there.  The financial exchanges deal in shares, bonds, futures, options, and a 
bewildering variety of derivatives.  Among the the few things that can't legally be traded there 
are slaves and related contracts (though Eosahi merchants have been known to trade in indenture 
contracts and slave futures in states where such things are legal).

While bribery is a feature of Eosahi foreign policy, domestic corruption is illegal and suppressed 
by the authorities.  However, many minor transgressions may be excused by the simple explanation 
of "but I made a profit!" (and, of course, sharing that profit with those transgressed against); 
taking a loss while transgressing is likely to earn not only punishment but also mockery. 

Inspirations: mercantile city-states of renaissance Europe

