## Facci

Denonym: Faccian

It is not an exaggeration to describe Facci as the business capital of the world.  It is the most 
industrialized major state and is dominated by a fantastically wealthy merchant elite.  However, 
it also has a rigidly controlled society and huge wealth disparity. 

Facci has an out-sized impact on international commerce but see relatively few of its benefits. 
The standardized prices mandated by their government establish a stable going rate for many goods 
and services in much of world and their exacting coinage standards ensure that their money is 
accepted nearly by nearly everyone who accepts currency.  Faccian manufactured goods, while not 
necessarily of the finest quality, are available in quantity in nearly every port.  However, they 
are routinely undercut on shipping by their competitors around the Sea, and while they control the 
lower Baline River and thus the northern terminus of the Southern Trade Route, they have been 
unable to extract anywhere near the wealth that Thimeera draws from their control of the majority 
of the route including the all-important Sargo Pass.

Accordingly, a major long-term goal of Faccian foreign policy is to gain more control of 
international trade.  They warred with Babel before its fall with some success, and with Thimeera 
after its seizure of the ruins of Babel without any notable success.  Faccian money and labour 
built the canal that established the Northern Trade Route at Eosahai, but they lost control of 
that city soon after opening the canal and were forced into a disadvantageous treaty with Thimeera 
acknowledging Eosahi independence.  A subsequent attempt to regain control ended in disaster and 
more advantage ceded to Thimeera.  In recent years, the Faccian government seems to have given up 
its goals of controlling Eosahai and has instead been trying to persuade the Windborne to allow 
them to open an over-land trade route using mammoths to draw wagons through the Merlew Gap. 
However, they have also been courting various tribal leaders in Kardy and stirring up discontent 
against Eosahai; many suspect that if they can catch both Eosahai and Thimeera weak at the same 
time again, they will not hesitate to make another attempt at conquering Eosahai.

Individuals have no choice in their careers or in where they live; by default, people inherit the 
careers of their parents and must remain in the district where they were born.  Anyone who wishes 
to move to another region or to change careers can apply to the government planning commissions. 
If someone else wants to make the opposite swap, then a request might be granted right away.  But 
more often, the planning commission will file away the request and only consider it if some year's 
economic plan requires more people in the destination region or career.  Every year, the planning 
commission decides production targets for every good and service, then how many people will be 
needed in every career and region.  People are then reallocated to suit the plan.  When moving 
people between careers or regions, first priority is given to people who have submitted requests 
for such a switch.  Second priority is given to people who already have the required skills, or at 
least similar skills, anywhere in the country.  Third priority is to retrain people into new 
industries.  To satisfy these latter two cases, the planning commission selects people to reassign 
randomly and without consulting them.  Wages are set by the planning commission, as are prices for 
most goods. 

The urban elites, who control the planning commissions, also control most of the country's 
wealth.  Together with people assigned to high-status, high-pay professions, the elites constantly 
struggle to suppress union organization among low-status, low-pay workers that might threaten 
their privileges.  They spend their wealth on outlandish fashions and on elaborate art-forms and 
spectacles: theatre, dance, music, architecture, painting, sculpture, etc.

The Faccian elite take great pride in their lack of slavery, unlike Thule.  Thulians might counter 
that at nearly everyone in Facci is essentially a serf.


Inspirations: the late Roman economic system established by Diocletian and Constantine, Imperial 
Russia in the late 19th century

