## Freheit

Denonym: Freheiti

The Republic of Freheit was founded as a homeland for slaves freed in the closing days of the Long 
War.  It straddles what was once the boundary between the Dragon-Lands and Elvan; while Elvan has 
long given up its claim to that territory, many Dragonal factions have not.  The Freheiti value 
liberty above all else.  Their democratic government is frequently weak and dysfunctional in all 
matters except national defense due to its citizens' insistence that personal freedom trumps all.

They live in fear of Dragonal invasion, and indeed there have been many border conflicts and raids 
in force into their territory over the past few generations.  Their buildings, especially near the 
Dragonal border, tend to be designed to be inexpensive and difficult to destroy.  Squat, dark 
buildings made of sod or rough stone are typical. 

Their relations with other nations are mixed.  They get along reasonably well with Elvan and 
export large quantities of agricultural products to them, but frequently clash with the Dragon-
states and have never formed an agreement with a Dragon-state on a basis more solid than "the 
enemy of my enemy is my friend, for now".  They dislike Thule for their slavery, Thimeera for 
their corruption, and Facci for their ostentatious wealth.  They have friendly relations with the 
Windborn and respect Eosahai and most of the Kardian tribes (though those latter groups are on the 
far side of the world). 

Tattoos are taboo: they are associated with Dragonal slave markings.  The one exception is former 
slaves with authentic slave tattoos, who are afforded much respect.  Bearing fake slave tattoos is 
a crime.

Freheit is notorious for being awash in arms.  Most citizens are members of one of the various 
militias and few will step outside their own doors without carrying at least a dagger.  People 
carry weapons both openly and concealed.  Spears and polearms are used in place of walking-
sticks.  Those who can afford good-quality armor (i.e., not too cumbersome) will often wear it in 
public while going about day-to-day business.  Children are taught to use and given access to 
weapons from young ages.  Critics point out that more people are hurt or killed by weapon 
accidents than foreign attacks, but supporters dismiss that as a small price to pay for freedom.

While Freheit has good soil and plentiful water, it is deficient in most other natural resources 
and must import a wide variety of goods.  The terrain consists of open plains and low hills with 
trees mostly only found along rivers.

Their population is about half ignan, with the balance being a mixture of other races.  Due to the 
large number of dryant slaves taken when Ivar overran Jidan, Freheit is unusual in having a 
significant dryant population while having few forests.


Inspirations: various post-colonial governments, US libertarians

