## Northern coast

Denonym: Iyutik

This barren, windswept region, including the off-shore islands, is inhabited by the Iyutik, a 
seafaring and whale-hunting culture.  They spend their winters in underground homes where they are 
protected from the weather and the temperature is constant year-round.  In the spring and fall, 
when the ice is close to shore, they take to the sea in small craft to hunt.  In the summer, when 
the ice is too far from shore for good hunting, they switch to fast ships and sail south to trade 
or raid.  Their ships have limited cargo capacity, so they mostly trade in dense, valuable wares, 
such as weapons and luxury goods.  Those with no goods to trade, or who feel that their holds are 
insuffiently full, often take to raiding shipping or coastal villages.

The Iyutik generally ignore Elvani ports as they are too well defended to raid.  Shipping coming 
in and out of those ports is another matter.  A common tactic is to board large merchant ships 
sitting off the coast with skeleton crews while they shuttle cargo between ship and shore with 
barges and longboats.

If a raid fails to yield the expected loot, the Iyutik will frequently take captives instead, who 
they then sell to slavers in the Dragon-lands or Thule.  Slaves make bulky cargo, but the ability 
to sell them for cash in the south and still have time for another raid can make slaving a 
profitable enterprise.  

Needless to say, the southern kingdoms don't appreciate Iyutik behaviour.  With little difference 
between a trader and a raider, most merchant ships will flee Iyutik ships on sight while many 
warships will attack on sight.  These tactics aren't particularly successful, as Iyutik ships are 
among the fastest on the sea.  From time to time, the Thimeeran navy makes punitive raids into 
Iyutik, usually with limited success.  Any Iyutik who are at home simply withdraw underground with 
their vaulables and can easily wait out Thimeeran sieges: the Thimeerans need to withdraw as the 
ice draws near, but the Iyutik can hunt among the ice and still get in a hunting season after the 
Thimeerans have gone home.  The lack of central authority among the Iyutik also means that many 
punitive raids are carried out against random villages that may or may not have anything to do 
with recent raids against Thimeeran interests.

Mostly oreads, some sylphs, undine, and ~~metal accused~~.  Mature dryants can't survive the 
winter conditions outside and immature dryants avoid spending much time underground.


Inspirations: inuit vikings


