## Northern plains

Denonym: Windborn

The vast region north of the Elvani mountains and of the farthest reaches of the Kardy forests is 
inhabited by the Windborn, clans of nomadic reindeer herders.  They practice little horticulture, 
mostly plantations of berry bushes that thrive in the short, cool growing seasons.  Their primary 
beasts of burden are mammoths: vast, shaggy creatures that can withstand the most bitter winter 
storms and have the strength to pull their wagon-homes.  The Windborn clans have an overall leader 
in the Chief of the Clan-Chiefs, but the clans usually operate autonomously and rarely is the 
Chief of the Clan-Chiefs' authority invoked.  On the rare occasions when they unite to war against 
their southern neighbours, their nigh-unstoppable mammoths trample all in their path; only the 
summers' heat forces them to return to their cool northern lands.  Unlike most nations, the 
Windborn fight primarily in the winter.

The Windborn rarely take to the sea: in their folklore, the sea is the only thing hungrier than a 
mammoth.  They have few conflicts with the Iyutik along the northern coast and trade with them for 
metals.  While the Windborn may camp near the ice-free southern coast, they have little use for 
anything close enough to the water to catch salt spray.  There are a number of freeports along the 
coast, inhabited mostly by merchants and travellers from other lands, where the Windborn trade 
their meat, leather, cheeses, ivory, and other goods for cloth and other products.

Windborn bands of up to a few hundred people are semi-nomadic, rarely spending more than a few 
months in one place before moving on to fresh pastures.  Wealthier families have their own mammoth-
drawn wagon-homes; poorer families live in yurts.  While there are a number of permanent 
settlements in the northern plains, they have few permanent inhabitants: bands drift in to trade 
before moving on again within a few weeks.

Most inhabitants of this region are sylphs, with a significant ~~metal accursed~~ minority.  A few 
clans contain significant numbers of ignans, but ignan child-rearing prevents them from living in 
small numbers even if among many of other races.  Mature dryants can't survive the winter 
conditions and undine can't tolerate the nomadic lifestyle.  While there are a few settled 
communities of undine near the southern coast, they don't really consider themselves to be 
windborn.  These people grow mostly cold-tolerant root vegetables which they trade with the 
windborn for meat and animal products.


Inspirations: various nomadic cultures from northern Eurasia, some groups from David & Leigh Eddings' "Belgariad" series and sequels.
